# Insurance-Customer-Marketing-Strategy-Optimization
Insurance data was used to optimize target market strategy. Old customer data was clustered to establish customer segments, then supervised learning techniques were used to classify new customer data. Then new segmented customer data was run through apriori to find which attributes followed a customer being placed in a customer segment.

The point of this analysis was to segment the insurance market into target markets with descriptive attributes to come up with intentional marketing strategies supported by data. In this analysis, clustering was used to come up with distinct groups that were different from each other while within each group, data points were similar. Once the segments were established, multiple classifier algorithms were run; Decision Tree, naïve Bayes, and Random Forest, to classify new customers into the target markets established from clustering. 
After a good classification model was established, the Apriori rule mining algorithm was run to find the attributes that were most prevalent in each cluster, which were also the data points within each cluster that are similar, so that marketing campaigns could be created around those attributes. In the data, the attributes used in the clustering, classifying, and rule mining algorithms were gender, diabetic, smoker, children, region, bmi, blood pressure, age, and claim. From this analysis, four distinct target markets were found that all had very different attributes, create a random forest model that was able to classify customers with 100% accuracy and describe the customers that make up each market segment for effective marketing.
